

CITY ATTORNEY'S ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H



Background	

California State statutes authorize a city or county to
levy a tax on the privilege of occupying a room in a hotel,
motel or other place of lodging where the occupancy is for 30
days or less. Pursuant to such authorization the City of Folsom
levied such a tax (known as a "transient occupancy or room tax")
by ordinance enacted April 21, 1986. The tax rate was set at 8%
of the room rate and it has been imposed at that level since its
enactment. A 10% tax is imposed by other neighboring govern-
mental entities namely, the County of Sacramento and the Cities
of Sacramento and Galt. The tax generates revenue for general
governmental purposes and offsets in part, the cost of providing
municipal services such as police, fire and recreation to the
visitors to the city who occupy hotel rooms.

Proposition 62 was adopted as a state initiative measure on
November k, 1986. It requires that the collection of general
taxes levied after August 1, 1985, be discontinued, unless the
tax is approved by a 2/3rds vote of the City Council and
approved by a majority vote of the voters of the City. The City
Council has unanimously voted to continue the room tax and has directed that the measure be submitted to the voters of the City.

Fiscal

Although the room tax generated only $5,969.60 during the
1987-88 fiscal year, it is expected to produce significant
revenue in future years. The passage of this measure will
permit the continued collection of the room tax. The defeat of
the measure will result in the loss of present and future
revenues from the room tax.

