<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE L

Measure L is intended to prevent the anticipated decline in utility tax revenues
received by the City of Sunnyvale from residential and small commercial
businesses which is expected to occur as a result of state government
deregulation of the electric utility industry. Small commercial businesses are
defined as those with a maximum peak demand less than 20 kilowatts.

Electric rates for residential and small commercial businesses are supposed to
be reduced by approximately 30%, in 10% increments, between 1998 and 2008. If
the rates are reduced, and if Measure L passes, then the City Council will be
authorized to hold one or more public hearings each time the electric rates
decrease 10% to consider raising the electric utility tax rate by one-third
percent. Since 1975 the City's electric utility tax rate on all electric utility
users has been 2%. The potential increases would be from 2% to 2.33% no earlier
than January 1, 1998, to 2.66% no earlier than April 1, 2002, and to 3% no
earlier than January 1, 2008. There would be an absolute cap at 3%. The tax rate
could not be increased without the Council holding at least one public hearing
and adopting an ordinance by at least four affirmative votes. Measure L does not
require the Council to increase the tax rate at all or to the full 3%. Measure L
simply authorizes the City Council to consider and possibly adopt tax rate
increases in stages.

With deregulation of electric rates, an increase in the tax rate will not result
in an overall increase to any utility bill. For example, a resident that now
uses $50 worth of electricity pays $1 in utility users tax, for a total bill of
$51. If there is both deregulation in electric rates and an increase in the tax
rate, that same resident would anticipate paying $45 for electricity and $1.05
in taxes at the 2.33% rate, for a total bill of $46.04; $40.50 for electricity
and $1.08 in taxes at the 2.66% rate, for a total bill of $41.58; and $36.45 for
electricity and $1.09 in taxes at the 3% rate, for a total bill of $37.54.

The money generated by the utility users tax goes into the City's general fund.
General fund money pays for a wide variety of basic City services, including

public safety, parks, libraries and road maintenance. Measure L is a companion
measure to Measure K, but Measure L should be considered and acted upon
separately from Measure K since neither measure is dependent upon the other.

A "yes" vote on Measure L will authorize the City Council to consider and adopt
one or more increases from 2% to a maximum of 3% in the utility users tax on
residential and small commercial businesses.

A "no" vote on Measure L will preclude the City Council from considering or
adopting any increase in utility users tax on residential and small commercial
businesses.

<impartialend>