<impartial>


IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE 0-06

This ballot measure proposes a general purpose tax that requires a
majority vote for adoption. If approved by the voters, it would enact a
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) transactions and use tax rate on
retail sales within the City of Arroyo Grande. This tax will add 50 cents
to each $100 of taxable sales.

The proposed transactions and use tax, like the current sales tax, would
be imposed upon the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail
within the City of Arroyo Grande, as well as upon the storage, use, or
other consumption of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer within the City of Arroyo Grande. If this measure is approved by
the voters, the combined sales tax and transactions and use tax rate
within the City of Arroyo Grande will be seven and three quarter percent
(7%). The proposed tax would be applied equally to residents and
nonresidents making retail purchases in the City of Arroyo Grande.

If this measure is approved by the voters, every year the Arroyo Grande
City Council will be required to publish and distribute a report to each
household within the City setting forth the revenues and expenditures
from the proceeds of the one-half cent tax and shall also be required to
hold a public hearing and review the tax every five years to determine
whether it is necessary for the tax to remain in effect.

Revenues generated from the proposed transactions and use tax would
be deposited into the City’s General Fund to be used by the City of
Arroyo Grande to fund general City projects, operations and services,
including, but not limited to, transportation improvements, maintenance
and upgrades of the City’s infrastructure, public safety expenses and
compliance with Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements.

<impartialend>