

<impartial> 


Impartial Analysis Of Proposition H


Voter approval of Proposition H would add
Sections 3.80.222,3.80.224,3.80.225 and 3.80.227
to the Long Beach Municipal Code, and establish
an additional twenty-five cent per barrel
production tax on oil producers within the City of
Long Beach, the use of which will be dedicated to
certain purposes. Approval of this measure will
require an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
voters.

Presently, the City of Long Beach imposes a
fifteen cent per barrel tax on the business of
oil production from wells located in the City
of Long Beach. The proposed Municipal Code
amendment would impose an additional tax of
twenty-five cents per barrel on that production
(the “special tax”). The special tax would be
further adjusted for inflation/deflation as
measured by the Los Angeles-Riverside-Orange
County Area Consumer Price Index. In the
event that the price per barrel (as reported on
the West Texas Intermediate Crude Index) falls
below twenty dollars for any month, the special
tax would be suspended for that month. The
proceeds from this special tax may only be used
for police officers and firefighters, and related
costs including, but not limited to, equipment,
facilities and training.

<impartialend>