<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

On July 30, 2008, the Parlier City Council adopted Resolution No. 2008-57, which
proposes a new Police and Fire parcel tax on all parcels within the City of Parlier.
Measure “S” seeks voter approval of the new Police and Fire parcel tax described in
Resolution No. 2008-57 because state law does not allow the imposition of a new
parcel tax by City Council action alone; voter approval is also required. The amount of
the proposed parcel tax is $300 per year for residential parcels, $480 per year for
commercial parcels, $1,200 per year for industrial parcels and other amounts for
government-owned and other parcels as set forth in the Resolution, and collected in
the same way in which traditional property taxes are charged and collected on the
secured property tax bill. The proposed parcel tax revenues can only be used for
expenditures that are consistent with a detailed “Expenditure Plan” which is a part of
Resolution No. 2008-57. The Expenditure Plan describes, in detail, that the allowable
expenditures are only for Police and Fire purposes, programs and other law
enforcement activities. The Resolution also establishes a five member Citizen Audit
Committee to make annual reviews of the expenditures of the parcel tax revenues to
ensure that they are spent in a manner consistent with the Expenditure Plan. The
Citizens Audit Committee is also required to make an annual public report regarding
the expenditures of the proceeds of the tax by the City. Passage of Ballot Measure “S”
requires two-thirds voter approval. If approved by the voters, the special Police and
Fire parcel tax would become effective for the 2009-2010 tax year, and continue until
repealed by the voters of the City of Parlier.

<impartialend>