

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A 09

If approved by a majority of the voters voting, Measure A 09 would
approve the water user rates set forth in Ordinance No. 953 N.S.
Ordinance No. 953 N.S. enacts a water user rate structure that includes
a monthly fixed charge and a variable component based on actual water
usage. As shown on the chart below, the monthly fixed rate is the same
for all meters and would not increase. The variable rate, which is based
on consumption, would increase annually, beginning January 1, 2010,
through January 1,2014.

In addition, the rate structure provides a reduced "lifeline" rate for
single-family residences for the first five (5) units of water used to
provide basic water needs. One unit of water is equal to 748 gallons; 5
units equal 3,740 gallons.

The new rates established by Ordinance No. 953 N.S. are set forth in
the chart below:

Monthly Fixed Rate

	Existing	1/1/2010	1/1/2011	1/1/2012	1/1/2013	1/1/2014
All  Meters	$18.00	$18.00	$18.00	$18.00	$18.00	$18.00

Variable Consumption Charges

Usage  Rate  (all  users  except  as set  forth  below)	$1.32	$1.75	$2.00	$2.25	$2.50	$2.75
Single  Family  0-5  Units"	$1.32	$1.49	$1.70	$1.91	$2.13	$2.34

"One Unit is equivalent to 748 gallons, or one Hundred Cubic Feet
("HCF")

Based on the study prepared by Kennedy Jenks Consultants, the
proposed rate structure will enable the City to pay for water system
operations and phased improvements on a gradual "pay-as-you-go"
approach, with costs spread out over 17 years. The fees will cover the
costs of operations and system improvements for existing water
customers.

Ordinance No. 953 N.S. also provides that the water usage fees will be
reviewed at least every two years to ensure that the fees do not exceed
the City's costs of providing water service within the City.
